vl.<b>regression</b>(<em>regression</em>)

Fit regression models to smooth and predict values.

## <code>regression</code> Method Overview

* <a href="#as">as</a>
* <a href="#extent">extent</a>
* <a href="#groupby">groupby</a>
* <a href="#method">method</a>
* <a href="#on">on</a>
* <a href="#order">order</a>
* <a href="#params">params</a>
* <a href="#regression">regression</a>

## <code>regression</code> API Reference

<a id="as" href="#as">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>as</b>(<em>...value</em>)

The output field names for the smoothed points generated by the regression transform.

__Default value:__ The field names of the input x and y values.

<a id="extent" href="#extent">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>extent</b>(<em>...value</em>)

A [min, max] domain over the independent (x) field for the starting and ending points of the generated trend line.

<a id="groupby" href="#groupby">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>groupby</b>(<em>...value</em>)

The data fields to group by. If not specified, a single group containing all data objects will be used.

<a id="method" href="#method">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>method</b>(<em>value</em>)

The functional form of the regression model. One of `"linear"`, `"log"`, `"exp"`, `"pow"`, `"quad"`, or `"poly"`.

__Default value:__ `"linear"`

<a id="on" href="#on">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>on</b>(<em>value</em>)

The data field of the independent variable to use a predictor.

<a id="order" href="#order">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>order</b>(<em>value</em>)

The polynomial order (number of coefficients) for the 'poly' method.

__Default value:__ `3`

<a id="params" href="#params">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>params</b>(<em>value</em>)

A boolean flag indicating if the transform should return the regression model parameters (one object per group), rather than trend line points.
The resulting objects include a `coef` array of fitted coefficient values (starting with the intercept term and then including terms of increasing order)
and an `rSquared` value (indicating the total variance explained by the model).

__Default value:__ `false`

<a id="regression" href="#regression">#</a>
<em>regression</em>.<b>regression</b>(<em>value</em>)

The data field of the dependent variable to predict.

